README.md, before:

# Workstreams

The ALOHA subproject comprises three workstreams
* WS1 local risk
* WS2 regional pulse
* WS3 simulation and what-if scenario modelling

# Workstream 1 - Emergent Risk Index

Create a composed regional Risk Index that takes into account the level of infection rate, % of vulnerable population, and many other factors to assess the ‘riskiness’ of a specific region. How can we help local authorities to decide when is the right time to intervene? 

Also contains
* [geospatial knowledge of the world with respect to neighbourhood relationships at country and sub-country level](ws1/geospatial)
* [a tagging tool for humans to annotate infection waves](ws1/labelling_tool)

![Cookiecutter Preview](cookiecutter.select.gif)

# Workstream 2 - Emergent Pulse

Create a series of index that can we describe the status of a region, for example; What is the sentiment of the population of that region? How are they behaving? How the news and Media changing? How is the tourism industry being affected?


# Workstream 3 - Simulation Track

Creating a simulation model: What-if scenarios will support Government and Business to quantify the impact of specific measures on countries, regions, counties (i.e. Risk Index) and Industries. 

![Emergent Economic Engine](e3.png)

Commit message:

updated with an image for WS2

README.md, after:

# Workstreams

The ALOHA subproject comprises three workstreams
* WS1 local risk
* WS2 regional pulse
* WS3 simulation and what-if scenario modelling

# Workstream 1 - Emergent Risk Index

Create a composed regional Risk Index that takes into account the level of infection rate, % of vulnerable population, and many other factors to assess the ‘riskiness’ of a specific region. How can we help local authorities to decide when is the right time to intervene? 

Also contains
* [geospatial knowledge of the world with respect to neighbourhood relationships at country and sub-country level](ws1/geospatial)
* [a tagging tool for humans to annotate infection waves](ws1/labelling_tool)

![Cookiecutter Preview](cookiecutter.select.gif)

# Workstream 2 - Emergent Pulse

Create a series of index that can we describe the status of a region, for example; What is the sentiment of the population of that region? How are they behaving? How the news and Media changing? How is the tourism industry being affected?

The following image gives an overview of the topics covered in this workstream

![Workstream 2 topics](ws2_overview.png)


# Workstream 3 - Simulation Track

Creating a simulation model: What-if scenarios will support Government and Business to quantify the impact of specific measures on countries, regions, counties (i.e. Risk Index) and Industries. 

![Emergent Economic Engine](e3.png)
